# Losing weight

I used to be overweight for several years. Being overweight sucks. In
addition to the usual aesthetic disadvantages, I was in for a lifetime
of health problems associated with obesity. Losing weight is one the
best things to happen in my life, and something for which I'll ever be
grateful to God.

I lost weight by permanently changing my eating habits. I started
eating a healthy, balanced diet (like a normal person) and started
exercising regularly. I never did anything extreme, unnatural,
unhealthy or unsustainable.

It really is that simple, but I'm saddened to see many people
complicating things.

A simple sustainability test is asking yourself: "Can I reasonably do
this for the rest of my life?". For example, it is nearly impossible
to eat cucumber slices at lunchtime for the rest of your
life. However, endeavouring to be a little bit more disciplined, and
eating a balanced diet, is definitely possible.

It is not sustainable to starve, to over-exert yourself while
exercising, or to go on abnormal diets. Being consistent over an
extended period of time works far better than short, extreme bursts of
the latest fad diet.

What comprises a healthy, balanced diet is dependent on a range of
factors, and has to be custom designed taking into account an
individual's lifestyle and energy needs.

A person cannot eat the diet of an Olympic swimmer in intensive
training, and expect to lose weight. The same goes for the erratic
eating habits of the average teenager.

Good health is only going to last as long as a healthy lifestyle is
practised. Falling back into old, unhealthy habits will rapidly lead
to weight gain and poor health.

I'm not overweight now, and have been this way for the past few years
without any significant fluctuations in my weight. I still enjoy good
food and make a small allowance for it. Staying healthy will require
constant discipline.

Becoming overweight remains one of my greatest fears, but in the
meantime, it is nice to fit into clothes designed for normal people,
to not be judged negatively based on my appearance, and to be able
look into the mirror, and smile.
