Buffalo Spa

I came across a herd of buffaloes enjoying their evening dip in the
canal.

The buffaloes clearly looked like they were enjoying their swim. Some
of them were chewing the cud, others were huddled together, mostly
motionless.

The old man in charge of the buffaloes noticed me staring from the
other side, and asked me to get into the water.

I told him that I didn't have a towel with me, and that the water was
very dirty. He told me that the water was so good that I would not
feel like coming outside again. I made some excuse and avoided it,
despite his repeated encouragement.

Amongst all the buffaloes, I noticed one buffalo which was
significantly larger than the rest. It was the lone male buffalo.

Its horns were easily more than than a metre in length. It also had a
large circular nose-ring to make it easier to handle, because an
uncontrollable male buffalo of that size is too scary to even
imagine. While some of the other buffaloes were fidgeting and bumping
into each other, the male was perfectly still. It was also chewing the
cud, and enjoying the water-supported relief for its powerful legs.

After some time, another man came to canal bank and at his signal, the
entire herd stood up straight and started coming out of the
canal. Normally, I'd have thought that buffaloes are stupid, stubborn
animals, but I was amazed at how well conditioned they were to obey
his signal.

While the rest of the herd was queueing up near the canal bank, a
mother and calf were refusing to leave. The old man who earlier tried
to get me to jump into the canal, threw a few small rocks on their
backs to get them moving, in addition to many verbal commands.

I went and stood near the place where the buffaloes were climbing onto
the walking path I was on. A buffalo strayed from the herd, and was
walking in my direction. The other young man called out to me so that
I could send the buffalo his way. Being unschooled in matters of
buffalo-herding, I was confused as to what I had to do. He asked me to
threaten the buffalo by brandishing the large umbrella I had with
me. I moved near and stood awkwardly close to it, hoping that it would
back off. It didn't call my bluff, backed down and rejoined the
herd. Turns out that even a 400 kilogram domestic water buffalo has a
concept of personal space as well.

I drank a lot of buffalo milk in my childhood, so I respect their
contribution to my life.

P.S. Someday, I shall swim in a canal.
