# Koka Nako, Dubai

After the birth of our twin girls, we spent six months living in my
in-laws' place for the maternity period. My mom-in-law had always
wanted to visit Dubai, but for whatever reason it did not work out due
to her career and her children's education. My wife and I felt that we
could celebrate the trials of the maternity period by going on a
family holiday for the 60th birthday. It was also in gratitude to her
tireless efforts where she near-singlehandedly took care of the twins
when we were in no position to.

We decided to book our tickets to Dubai and AirBnB and figure out the
rest once we reach there. As we were traveling with 15 month old
twins, we had to temper our expectations as to what could be done. It
was clear we wouldn't be able to do everything that people usually do
in Dubai.

As the date of the departure arrived, I began to be increasingly
worried about the flight. It is intimidating to fly with young
children, and many of us have sat through flights looking at and
hearing parents struggle with keeping their kids comfortable on long
flights.

It turned out that my fears were unfounded, as they slept through the
entire duration of the flight without any problems.

After arriving at Dubai, we were greeted at the airport by our cousin
who lives and works in Dubai. We booked a taxi and headed to our
AirBnB.

We chose to stay at an AirBnB as we needed to cook food for the
children. There was no way we were going to risk giving them food from
a restaurant for an entire week, in fact, we didn't want to take the
risk for ourselves.

On of the first items on our rough itinerary was to see the (at the
time of writing) greatest building in the world, the Burj
Khalifa. Being smarter than we needed to be, we decided to go during
"Primetime" which would apparently allow us a view from the top in
sunlight and after sunset.

After a frantic fifteen minutes of running through Dubai Mall (and
getting a contemptuous wave of the hand in the general direction that
we needed to go upon asking for help from a salesperson of a designer
store), we reached the counter for the Burj Khalifa observation deck.

We had booked the ticket on a third party travel website (Klook),
which sent us the email confirmation. Now, when you click to see the
voucher, instead of showing you the voucher, it opens up the mobile
application. We had done the booking as a guest without logging in, so
now when the mobile application opened, it was not showing any
bookings.

Luckily, the email contained the transaction ID, and I had thought
that it should be enough for the person at the counter to give us the
tickets we needed to move forward. The person told us they couldn't
help us and we need to get the voucher. I told them there is a
transaction ID, but that didn't seem to get us anywhere.

My wife and I spent a tense few minutes fiddling around with the mall
wifi repeatedly trying to log into the mobile application trying
desperately to find the voucher. During this time both the babies were
being carried by my in-laws and were getting increasingly irate. My
wife decided to go to the counter again, and this time a lady told us
that the transaction ID should be enough. I told her that I had tried
that with the other guy already, and he could not help us at all.

Anyway, we were glad to move ahead, and thus began the longest queues
I have been in, with these two poor children. It was a Friday
evening. As we had later learnt from a friend who lives in Dubai, you
do NOT go to Burj Khalifa on a Friday evening as it would be extremely
crowded.

I will admit here, that I *was* warned by a friend to take the VIP
ticket to the 148th floor as they have a separate queue and a separate
elevator. After discussing with my family, it was decided that as
there are four of us, it would be expensive to take the VIP ticket, so
we decided to go on the usual "unwashed masses" ticket, though we did
pay double price to go at sunset.

Back to the legendary Burj Khalifa queue. While standing in the queue,
the babies started getting hungry. Please understand that strollers
are not allowed to the observation deck (nor while waiting in the long
queues for the elevator), so the babies were being passed around like
parcels as they started getting heavy.

We fed them homecooked upma while standing, trying not to attract the
attention of any employees, as food was not allowed to be carried. The
security guard had earlier told us, that even baby food is not
allowed, but he was letting us go (good guy). Apparently being able to
feed 15 month-old babies in an hour-long queue while carrying them the
whole time standing up, is something the rules do not allow.

When we finally got our turn for the elevator, we got in. I noticed
that my ears popped perhaps four or five times, which suggested the
extreme height we were ascending.

Once we reached the observation deck, we realised that we missed the
sunset we paid a 2x premium for, and chose to console ourselves with
the night time views of Dubai, which in other circumstances, I could
have easily spent an hour doing. We could not miss noticing a long
snaking queue in the observation deck and we dreaded waiting in line
for *another hour* to go back down.

We sat on the floor on the outdoor observation deck and fed the babies
the remainder of their upma dinner. After taking some quick photos, we
decided to embark on the journey back down.

An employee (bless him), took mercy on us, and told us he will be able
to get us down quicker. At many locations in the queues we noticed
random doors opening and closing for people the management deemed
worthy. We were fortunate enough to go through one such door, and then
realised that had they all been open, it would not seem so crowded (as
is the case in places where space and low-waiting time is a
premium). After coming out on the other side, his colleague or
supervisor expressed her displeasure at his kindness, so he told us
with some disappointment that only the ones carrying the babies can go
down out of turn, and the other (my wife and I) will have to wait in
queue. He pointed out to us that there is a larger elevator on the
125th floor and recommended that we use that. My wife and I spent
perhaps thirty minutes waiting and we finally rejoined the babies with
their grandparents.

We ordered some food in the Dubai Mall food court, and proceeded to
the taxi pick up area. What we hadn't known is that on peak timings,
the waiting time for a taxi can be up to an hour long. There was an
snaking, airport-style queue, and we waited for perhaps 45 minutes and
finally got into the taxi back to our AirBnB.

What should have been an enjoyable experience was ruined by three long
queues, and we were left regretting how much we had hyped it up for
ourselves, and how much excitement we had built up, only to be dashed
by poor crowd management by the Burj Khalifa and the Dubai Mall. It
was at this point that we had the sad realisation that tourist spots
are optimized for revenue, *not* the experience. There was absolutely
no good reason to allow such large crowds in the observation deck. I
shudder to think how so many people can get down in an emergency
situation. (There was a fire in a high rise building in Dubai the week
before our trip).

The next evening, we were to visit some family friends and we had a
great time having dinner with them. They were kind enough to organise
a little birthday party for my mom-in-law, so that lifted all our
spirits after the disappointment of the previous day.

Next on the itinerary, was a visit to the Miracle Garden. The flower
arrangements were certainly impressive, and we were able to take some
nice pictures here. When we went to the food court area, there was a
juice stall offering various kinds of fresh juice. Being wary of juice
stalls, I thought some tender coconut water would be a safer bet, but
when I asked them how much a tender coconut was, they told me it was
30 AED (Rs. 660). No Indian would take that deal, and I did what every
Indian would (or wouldn't) do in that situation. Having lived abroad
and having done a modest amount of traveling, I am aware that
converting into your home currency is not something that will ruin
your enjoyment of things. However, a 10x premium is *not* what I
expected, and that was one of the most poignant moments of the entire
trip, and a recurring theme every time we dared venture asking how
much something costs in Dubai.

The Global Village was something that was recommended by multiple
people, and even hearing about it, it sounded like a fun place to
visit. This was the only thing that we felt was worth the hype and
would not have minded going a second time to fully appreciate it. The
Global Village is somewhat of a fairground atmosphere where various
countries have their allocated areas, and they have shopping stalls,
food stalls and even some public music and dance performances. We
perhaps covered half of it in the time we had, and had a great time
taking in the sights, sounds and tastes of many cultures.

By this time, we had become keenly aware of the huge bills we were
racking up taking taxis in Dubai. Ideally, we should have gotten a
rental car, but Indian driving licenses are not valid in Dubai, and I
was concerned that the left-right switch might make it dangerous to
drive without having sufficient experience.

A family friend gave us the number of a driver, and he agreed to take
us out for a whole day at a fraction of the price (and several times
the inconvenience and uncertainty) of the usual taxi cabs. We went to
the Atlantis Aquarium, which turned out to be smaller than I expected,
after seeing the aquarium in Sentosa Island, and the Melbourne
Aquarium. However, as someone who likes aquariums, I did not mind too
much. The kids seemed to be fascinated by the fish, so that was nice
to see. We also drove past the famed Burj Al Arab hotel, and stopped
at a nearby beach and got our feet wet. The kids got scared feeling the
wind and the waves, so we had to take them away from the water's
edge. There were surfers and I had the chance to see people doing wind
foiling on foilboards for the first time. It looked like a lot of fun,
for someone who knows what they are doing.

After dark, we headed back to the Dubai Mall once again, to see the
fountain show. Our driver found us the perfect spot for parking, and
we were able to find a nice place next to the fountain. This was the
closest thing I got to goosebumps in the entire trip, as the music and
the co-ordination of the fountains, and the knowledge that I was
looking at the greatest fountain in the world.

It was mildly offputting to see the name of a real estate developer
and random commercial images projected on the Burj, but the fountain
more than compensated for that. We took a parcel from PF Chang's and
went home. It was a hugely successful day.

The day of the birthday finally arrived, and this was the reason for
the trip. We had planned a Dhow dinner cruise in the Dubai Marina. The
dinner cruise was fun enough, but I couldn't shake the feeling that
this is something primarily Indians do, but I suppressed that feeling
as best as I could. The views of the marina were impressive, and the
number of high rise buildings constructed was astounding. There also,
seemed to be numerous places to chill and hangout all along the
marina, and I made a mental note that I need to come here sometime if
destiny (God's will) allows. One of the highlights of the cruise was
the tanoura dancer. He was spinning for a scarily long time. We could
observe that he was utilising a technique of mitigating giddiness by
focussing on one point, and then suddenly turning his head an
focussing on the same point. This is something that dancers employ to
avoid falling over due to movement-induced vertigo. After his
performance, he was calling for volunteers to try out the dance, and
as I was in a game mood at that time, I went forward and tried
spinning around. Even for a short time, I almost fell over, and he
caught me. I gained an appreciation of how difficult that dancing
style is, even with all the mitigation techniques.

The AirBnB was not available for the last day, so we had booked a
hotel near the airport, so we said goodbye to our host and headed to
the hotel room.

Soon after checking in, my wife and I went to a desert safari, and the
kids would kindly be taken care of by the grandparents in a friend's
place. The desert is barely half an hour out of Dubai, and we did all
the usual things riding an ATV and going dune bashing in a 4WD. It was
thrilling and fun, and we went to the campsite for dinner. There was
some entertainment, belly dancing, more tanoura dancing and a fire
show which were all fine.

As we were getting back to leave, I realised that I did not have my
phone, and immediately started calling it with my wife's
phone. Thankfully, someone picked up and asked me to come to the
office. He asked me to prove that it is my phone, by unlocking the
screen, and after seeing the wallpaper with my photo was satisfied,
and handed it over to me. I am truly grateful to whoever it was that
gave my phone to the office instead. Thank you, and God bless.

Later that night, I started developing chills. This is when the trip
took a wrong turn for me. The next morning was equally horrible with
fever and nausea, so I spent most of the day in the hotel room resting
and trying to recover in time for the flight back home.

The journey back was smooth, as the kid slept through the entire 3
hour flight. I was having some chills, and my co-passenger noticed
that I was not well, and offered me some paracetamol which I gladly
accepted. I did have medicines of my own, but I just could not be
bothered to get it from the hand baggage stowed overhead. I was that
low in energy and motivation at that point.

After landing, and finding some cabs we reached home and spent the
next few days recovering from the fever and cough that we picked up
soon after the desert safari. The doctor in the OPD back home said
that it does not look like COVID symptoms and prescribed a course of
anti-biotics, paracetamol and cough medicine and the infection slowly
passed.

I have said surprisingly less about the kids, which shows how much
they co-operated during the whole trip. They learnt how to sleep in
the stroller, the ate at random locations, and spent long tiring days
doing sightseeing stuff without causing any issues. As long as we
ensured that they were fed, and well rested they were fine. If
anything, I had more problems during the trip than the kids.

Considering our situation, I would count the trip as a successful one,
as we were able to cover many locations with the kids in tow. It was a
fitting celebration for my mom-in-law, and we were grateful we had an
opportunity to do our little bit in making her 60th special for her.

